<!--
 Copyright (c) 2019 Emilian Roman
 
 This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
 warranty. In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
 arising from the use of this software.
 
 Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
 including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
 freely, subject to the following restrictions:
 
 1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
    claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
    in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
    appreciated but is not required.
 2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
    misrepresented as being the original software.
 3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.
-->

POST-PROCESSING
===============

QUALITY LEVELS
--------------

The table below outlines the shader effects that are configurable by the
user with the following characteristics:

  Shader                Options
  --------------------- -------------------------------------------
  MXAO                  off, low, high
  DOF                   off, low, high
  Motion Blur           off, in-built, low, high
  Dynamic Lens Flares   off, on
  Volumetric Lighting   off, on
  Lens Dirt             off, on
  HUDv5 Visor           off, on
  3D                    off, anaglyph, interleaving, side-by-side
  Color Blind Mode      off, protanopia, deuteranopes, tritanopes

CONFIGURATION
-------------

The post-processing configuration is stored at the following path:

    %APPDATA%\SPV3\postprocessing.bin

The 16-byte long binary file represents each post-processing option in a
single byte, with the following layout:

  Offset   Post-Processing Effect   Type
  -------- ------------------------ ------
  0x0      Internal                 B
  0x1      External                 B
  0x2      GBuffer                  B
  0x3      Depth Fade               B
  0x4      Bloom                    B
  0x5      Dynamic Lens Flares      B
  0x6      Volumetrics              B
  0x7      Anti Aliasing            B
  0x8      HUD Visor                B
  0x9      Motion Blur              I
  0xA      MXAU                     I
  0xB      DOF                      I
  0xC      Three Dimensional        I
  0xD      Color BlindMode          I

-   B - Boolean (0 for off; 1 for on)
-   I - Integer (0 for off, 1..3 for levels)

The values are represented using integers 0 to 4. Depending on the
post-processing effect, each integer represents either an option or a
toggle. 0 always means off.

DEFINITIONS
-----------

This document outlines the definitions for each shader effect, including
what it does and what technique is used.

AMBIENT OCCLUSION

> Technique used - MXAO 2.0 (Marty McFly's Ambient Obscurance)

Shading/rendering technique used to calculate how each point in the
scene is exposed to ambient light. Depending on the geometry, the
algorithm is used to apply dynamic shadows on occluded surfaces.

DEPTH OF FIELD

> Technique used - ADOF (Advanced Depth of Field)

Effect in which objects within some range of distances in a scene appear
in focus, and objects nearer or farther than this range appear out of
focus or blurred out. Just like any camera or your eye, ADOF enables
auto-focusing.

MOTION BLUR

> Technique used - Per Object Motion Blur

This effect cause the scene to blur in the direction of camera movement
and/or object movement. This effect emulates image retention of a
camera, thereby adding to the realism and perceived smoothness of
movements.

DYNAMIC FLARES

> Technique used - Dynamic Pseudo Lens Flares

Effect that shows lens flares automatically based on bright spots in the
scene.

LENS DIRT

> Technique used - Fast Blur Based Lens Dirt

Effect that shows subtle dirt/scratch effects on the screen.

Volumetric Lighting

> Technique used - Depth Mask Based Screen Space Volumetrics

This effect emulates tindal effect due to light scattering through foggy
atmosphere.

HUDv5 VISOR

> Technique used - Sprite Visualisation, Chromatic Abberation

This effect shows a sprite based holographic visor to compliment the
SPV3's native HUD. It has a Chromatic Abberation effect for a
holographic look and also sways according to player movement.

3D <EXPERIMENTAL>

> Technique used - Anaglyph / interleaving / side-by-side

Emulates depth perception of human eyes. Provides an illusion that the
game world has 3D depth which greatly adds to the relistic experience of
the game. \[NOTE: Requires special hardware to utilise this effect
properly\]

COLORBLIND MODE <EXPERIMENTAL>

> Technique used - Color Look Up Table

This is an accessibility effect which is designed to help users with
color blindness. The effect mainly focuses on key Halo gameplay
conditions. ie. \* The enemy should be distinctly identifiable \*
Factions should be distinguishable visually

DEBANDING <STUB>

> Technique used - Debanding

Effect which eliminated banding artifacts (sort of band like anomalies
that appear in otherwise smooth gradients of colors, due to small color
space/bit depth)
